# #StopHateForProfit - How to fix Facebook

This morning I received a push notification from Firefox, promoting a
["#StopHateForProfit" campaign](https://blog.mozilla.org/firefox/zuck/). This
campaign is so wrong on so many levels. Why is Mozilla now pushing political
content to my phone? Is using Twitter to bash on Facebook about hate not
ironing? But more importantly, the level of reflection and thoughts that went
behind this campaign is on a childish level; boohoo, some bad stuff, do
something! It's quite disheartening to see respectable institutions fall to
that level of simplified thinking.

But still, I think that we can all agree, Facebook has become quite toxic.
How can we apply reasoning to build a better platform?

## Facebook 2.0

A number of effects I noticed with Facebook:

* Likes replace real human interactions with a slot machine.
* The feed promotes self-aggrandizing content, a synthetic perception of
  people and the propagation of political content.
  
### Getting back to basics

The best thing about the original Facebook is that it allowed to connect
long-lost relatives. This is a human thing and of value.

Technology should be there to make our lives better.

### Remove the feed

Unfortunately when the feed was introduced, it meant that all the events of
the other people's lives are now broadcast to us. What is left to discuss when
all the events in life have already been displayed?

Other side-effects is that posturing is now encouraged. This doesn't bring out
the best out of humanity. It also help promote a fake vision of how people
feel.

Sharing posts is the vector to infiltrate people's minds with political
content.

### Remove likes

That sweet dopamine hit is similar to when playing in the slot machines. For
some reason we see people addicted to gambling in a bad light, but now it's
okay to get a whole population addicted on likes?

We are training a whole population to optimize their behaviours to receive
their little like treats, just like dogs. How sad is this?

### Add a personal journal

That journal should be private and for your own benefit. I think that there is
value if writing for yourself as it helps structure your own ideas. But this
only works when writing with innocence, without the fear of being judged.

The nice thing about a journal is that it allows you to go back and remind
yourself of past events, place things in context.

### Add reminders of people you haven't contacted in a while

We want genuine human interactions. This can only happen in private.

Facebook could help me by proposing ice-breaker questions I could ask. Or
reminding me of ongoing topics that I should ask about. And then let me
contact the person myself to have a proper conversation.

### Give me tools for self-determination

Technology is overwhelming us with information, to the point where it gets
hard to think properly. Our brains don't have the time to process all that new
content and get overwhelmed.

Facebook should provide the tools to filter content ourselves. Don't let
others invade our brain by default.

## Conclusion

This is far from being a comprehensive solution. This is just things that come
from the top of my head. Yet, it seems like it would have deeper effect than
adding more censorship as proposed by the campaign. This is what I would
expect from the campaign; a thoughtful analysis of the platform, which leads
to concrete solutions. Do your research. Instead, it's exactly of the quality
of the average Facebook post that was drafted in two seconds and optimized for
shock.
